# MetaCompare

MetaCompare is a computational pipeline for prioritizing resistome risk by estimating the potential for ARGs to be disseminated into human pathogens from a given environmental sample based on metagenomic sequencing data.

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine or server.

### System Requirements (*tested on linux Ubuntu 14.04*)

* git installed
* Python3 with pandas package installed
* Blast 2.2.8 or higher version installed

### Installing

**Step 1:** Change the current working directory to the location where you want the cloned `MetaCompare` directory to be made.
**Step 2:** Clone the repository using git command
```
~$ git clone https://github.com/minoh0201/MetaCompare
```

**Step 3:** Make directory `BlastDB` and change woring directory to it.

```
~$ cd MetaCompare
~/MetaCompare$ mkdir BlastDB
~/MetaCompare$ cd BlastDB
~/MetaCompare/BlastDB$
```

**Step 4:** Download the compressed Blast Database file from the web server (25 GB) and uncompress it.

```
~/MetaCompare/BlastDB$ wget http://bench.cs.vt.edu/ftp/data/metacomp/BlastDB.tar.gz
~/MetaCompare/BlastDB$ tar -zxvf BlastDB.tar.gz
```

**Step 5:** Get back to working directory `MetaCompare` and run `metacmp.py`

```
~/MetaCompare/BlastDB$ cd ..
~/MetaCompare$ ./metacmp.py
```

## Running MetaCompare

### Preparing input files

MetaCompare requires two FASTA files as inputs, one for the assembled contigs generated by IDBA-UD and the other for predicted gene list derived from the assembled contigs using prodigal. 

#### Option 1 (*recommanded*)

If you have raw reads you can submit them to MetaStorm (http://bench.cs.vt.edu/MetaStorm/) and run assembly pipeline to get assembled contigs and predicted gene list. MetaStorm's assembly pipeline uses trimmomatic for quality control of raw reads, IDBA-UD for assembly, and prodigal for gene prediction.

The input files we need can be downloaded from MetaStorm by clicking `Scaffolds` button (for assembled contigs) and `Genes` button (for predicted genes) in the assembled sample page.

#### Option 2

You can directly install and run trimmomatic (https://github.com/timflutre/trimmomatic), IDBA-UD (https://github.com/loneknightpy/idba) and prodigal (https://github.com/hyattpd/Prodigal) to process your raw reads in order to get the inputs.

### Running

Suppose you have the assembled contigs file, `S1.fa`, and predicted gene list `S1_genes.fa` (*These files are already in your working directory*).

The following command runs MetaCompare with 128 threads.

```
~$ ./metacmp.py -c S1.fa -g S1_genes.fa -t 128
```
The output should be look like as follows:
```
Running blastn on ACLAME
Running blastx on CARD
Running blastn on PATRIC
Reading files...
Computing resistome risk score..
Resistome risk score: 38.64014990951873
```

You can see detailed description for command line options by using `-h` option.
```
~$ ./metacmp.py -h
```

## License

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2018 Min Oh (minoh@vt.edu)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

## Citation

Oh, M., Pruden, A., Chen, C., Heath, L. S., Xia, K., & Zhang, L. (2018). MetaCompare: A computational pipeline for prioritizing environmental resistome risk. *FEMS microbiology ecology*.
